In the busy streets of Philadelphia, I always see a Chinese restaurant located nearby. Although the authenticity of the food might be questionable, the creative use of English words and pinyin, phonetically-spelled Chinese characters, always brought a chuckle out of me. It brought me joy knowing that Chinese immigrants, often with little to no education like my parents, can still assimilate into American culture. My identities have always been a combination of multiple other identities. Be it as an Asian and an American or as a student and an athlete. I was the Chinese restaurant that blended into the Philly cheesesteak restaurants. Restaurants, like any other institution, need workers to stay afloat. I want to be the worker that my fellow peers can rely on by partaking in Penn’s cultural centers like PAACH, La Casa Latina, and the many clubs and sports offered at Penn. As a first-generation college student, hubs like P1P allow me to empathize with other first-gen students of our experiences and continue to drive one another. **At Penn, I hope to contribute to a cooperative community that can rely on one another in times of need like the mixed fragrant flavors in a wok.**

Every night, I always heard that familiar footstep coming up the stairs at exactly 9:45 pm. After being alone in a silent house, you were the first home that brought life with every noise made. My stomach’s growls would be satisfied with the umami smell of pho you brought home for me. My mind would begin to ease and my heart yearned to express my appreciation for you coming home. But I couldn’t because our culture’s Confucian beliefs that focused solely on actions would have made that awkward. Although actions do speak louder than words, that does not disregard the power of words. David, you were not only my big brother but also a mentor who taught me the basics like taking the SEPTA while mom and dad worked late into the night. Now, you are just as busy with work but still find the time to be my brother. Your selflessness created opportunities for me and taught me the importance of paving the way for the next generation. If you hadn’t taken on our family’s financial issues, I would not be where I am today. So to the Atlas that has held up my world, David, thank you.

I sat beneath a tree and the shapeless beams of light through the leaves guided my eyes toward the ground. **I noticed a vast series of connected roots sitting below my body like the field of STEM.** My education does not just end in one subject or even the classroom. While interning at Ling Qin’s Orthopedics Lab, I learned how stem-cell research involves the use of not just an understanding of science. To make the research helpful, I needed to know human behavior and cultures through the humanities to create a meaningful hypothesis. STEM is the place where innovations and inventions in one field can be useful in another field. These are the interconnections of STEM that I hope to explore through a liberal arts curriculum at CAS. I look forward to courses taught by Penn Professors like Professor Ghrist for mathematics and Professor Charles on Africana Studies to continue bridging STEM and humanities. Taking advantage of the vast amount of resources at Penn, I can gain lab experience through programs like CURF to initiate my impact on the world as my **roots continuously grow.**