**Describe your recent educational history (past three to four years) and background, making sure to address whether your transcripts accurately reflect your academic ability. Feel free to describe any nonacademic or extracurricular experiences that you feel strengthen your application, such as volunteer work, employment, sports teams, high school clubs and/or travel.**


Forcefully, I pulled the pop top, creating a satisfying "tsssSSSS" sound—the fourth I heard that night. I had already chugged two cans of Pepsi and a Red Bull, trying my hardest to stay awake through the night. I glanced at the bottom right of my screen—5:00 AM, May 31. Before I could let my eyes drop, I took a large sip of my second can of Red Bull. I winced. It left a terrible after-taste in my mouth. The sun was beginning to wake up, and the birds endlessly chirping their morning song seemed to be taunting me. I had regret all the decisions I had made that led me to that moment. Recording late. Not working on my scrapbook project. Regardless, I had to continue. My grade depended on it.

6:10. I finished uploading my French project to YouTube. I had been up for 24 hours. With that, I fell asleep for a quick 10 minute nap before I went to school and hurriedly finished my scrapbook project during classes and lunch. The moment I got home, I fell asleep. 

I woke up to the sound of my alarm and birds chirping. It was some of the best sleep I had ever gotten in my life. Suddenly, my heart sunk. I scrambled to check my phone—June 1. My math homework was passed due. We were given a load of math homework which I neglected to finish my projects, leaving them for after school. I fell asleep instead. 

My parents have always stressed that education is the key to success, and their conviction has become a firm belief of mine. Over the past three years, I’ve put a lot of effort into my classes, aiming to learn as much as I can. I love to learn why things work, rather than just how to do problems. I love to challenge myself, taking courses that are known to be difficult, like AP Physics C and Discrete Mathematics during my senior year. These classes will help me develop the ability to think through problems logically, and discrete math will definitely help in the field of computer science, what I’m interested in majoring. This attitude of trying my best and challenging has translated accurately to my transcript, earning As in my classes, except my fourth quarter calculus grade—my first grade below an A since 6th grade.

This summer, I've been using Google Calendar to stay on top of everything I'm doing, marking down times to work, study, read, or even just to relax and have fun. Although I wish I ended the year with all A's, I'm proud of what I learned from my mistake. Had I not gotten that grade, I probably would never have had a strong commitment to keep a schedule for myself and learned the valuable life lesson of time management, of not procrastinating. I probably would've been extremely overwhelmed this summer, struggling to balance my internship at GRASP Lab at Penn and my summer program, MOSTEC. I’ve been using a Kanban board to manage my tasks for researching extrinsic contact estimation, as well as to manage my MOSTEC robotics project. 

-----------------
**Briefly describe your academic and personal goals and explain how these will be furthered by study in the Young Scholars Program at Penn. Feel free to discuss a specific academic topic you enjoy studying and explain who it is of interest to you.**

“Shrimp fried rice!” my mom yelled after taking a customer’s order. My dad barked orders to chefs as woks rolled and danced with the dragon’s breath. My parents immigrated in hopes of a better future for my brother and me. They toiled day till night, harsh cold winters to sizzling hot summers. I occasionally helped out, but my parents usually shielded me from work, giving me books to read instead. My parents believed education was the pathway to success, their conviction becoming my own.

After completing the course, I will gain college credit, reducing the financial burden of my college tuition placed on my parents. During my time at Penn, I plan to take MATH 1410. I will be able to get a glimpse into a life at Penn, having to complete rigorous course load which will help me prepare for it. This program will also will encourage me to improve my study skills and time management, helping me not just in college, but the rest of my life.

MATH 1410 will let me continue studying calculus. Calculus for me was extremely interesting, as it was the foundation of a lot of STEM. In physics, a lot of the equations can be simplified to just derivatives and integrals of each other. Calculus is elegant and beautiful, and I wish to explore more of that. The professor, Professor Rimmer, stresses the importance of conceptual understanding of calculus rather than just memorization. Taking multivariable calculus will prepare me for STEM, developing critical thinking and problem solving skills. I hope to learn a lot from this class, or any other class I end up taking, with the help of world class professors and gifted students. Penn Young Scholars will introduce me to new community, a place where the instructors want students to succeed and a place where students with similar interests learn and grow together.