**ESSAY QUESTION: IN 300 WORDS OR LESS, HOW WILL YOUR CIEE PROGRAM IMPACT YOUR COLLEGE EXPERIENCE AND/OR FUTURE CAREER PLANS?**

CIEE will be a welcoming supplement to my focus in CS, allowing me to truly participate in a liberal arts education, learning about perspectives outside of just the United States. Studying abroad will help me understand diverse viewpoints and learn about the Korean culture which a lot of the media I consume stems from (music, films, novels, etc.). It will also help me in the workforce, as globalization is becoming more and more of a reality, having to work with diverse people from across the world.

CIEE will help me grow as a person. It will challenge me to step out of my comfort zone and enhance my self-confidence by further developing my independence skills, learning how to take advantage of resources to help me navigate a completely new country. I will also be able to learn together with curious people across the world interested in Korean culture, exploring Seoul together as well as learning together in classes.

During Harvard's orientation, Dean Khurana told us that college was a transformative experience. He told us that college is a time of redefining "home"; home is somewhere comfortable, and to see what the world has to offer, we must step outside our comfort zones—we must leave home. Eventually, you settle down somewhere, and brick by brick—each new person you meet—lay the foundations for your new home. I have laid the foundations for a home at Harvard, and to learn more about the world, I believe CIEE offers a path to build another home at Korea.