**My team, the Ocean Anchor Bankers, are semifinalists in the Wharton Global High School Investment Competition, one of 55 teams out of nearly 1,400 teams competing in 53 countries**. Our investment strategy "anchors" our client, ensuring they will reach their destination even through rough waters—fluctuations in the market. For our video presentation, I filmed a skit where we're pirates, sailing the high seas in search for treasure—our slideshow/pitch. I'm extremely proud of how it turned out!  

**I placed second in the advanced team contest in the annual UPenn Math Contest**. Working together with friends has solidified the importance of collaboration; in my weak areas, my teammates provided insight, and in theirs, I contributed my own to create solutions we may not have achieved alone. I applied some topics in number theory, combinatorics, and set theory covered in my discrete mathematics course such as the Chinese remainder theorem, and from my teammates, I now know Bezout's theorem!

**Our robotics team qualified for states and competed in the Pennsylvania FTC Championship**. Although we did not win, we did well for our first year competing, and I can't wait to see what the future of SLAM robotics holds. As our season comes to an end, I'm working on rebranding our robotics team, leading a group to remake our logo, create a website, and write documentation for code and robotics in general that can be added to year by year to help the next year of ambitious roboticists.

**I competed in the MathWorks Math Modeling (M3) Challenge, where we were tasked to model the growth in sales of e-bikes and determine what influences e-bike sales the most in a 14-hour period**. I learned about non-stationary and stationary time series data, Granger’s Causality Test to determine which factors influenced each other, Johansen’s Cointegration Test to determine if a set of time series were cointegrated. After finding variables that showed correlation with each other and had reasonable justifications why they were correlated, I worked on developing a Vector Autoregression (VAR) to model the multivariate time series of data we found for e-bike sales, traffic congestion, and disposable income. I now realize that VAR could’ve also been used for our Wharton Investment Competition! It was a lot of fun; I learned so much about how computer science, statistics, and mathematics could be used in economics (and ran into many issues as well). Mobile ordering from a completely different Chipotle which cost us an extra 10 minutes in driving will remain a fond memory of senior year!

**I am a nominee for the US Presidential Scholars Program.**

I was also voted for Best Glow Up in our senior class :)