---
tags:
  - economics
---

- Businesses cycles represent market failure on grand scale
- Lags in economy and thus difficult for policy
- Used to believe fiscal policy not effective for cyclical stabilization because it's lags are so long (in part due to political process)
	- COVID: Changed view. Legislation went through. Believed too much, spending too much,  but speed was quick.
- 2008: Believed fiscal stimulus should be 0, while other economists believed should be very large
	- First thought: Leave problem to Fed. First line of defense. Believed not to be that large of an issue
	- Monetary policy should be first. Fiscal should be used for long term goals
- Used to believe target inflation should be 0%. Long run: Rate of inflation didn't affect unemployment or production. 
	- Repeated experiences w/zero lower bound
	- Alternate tools
	- **Inflation higher, nominal interest rates will be higher, and thus more room to cut interest rates when you need to**
- Central banks keep hitting zero lower bound, QE is dubious
	- Should use fiscal more (in automatic stabilizers? discretionary?)
		- Automatic preferred. Doesn't rely on political process
		- Gives room for fiscal policy to be used
		- 2008: Wasn't worried about zero lower bound
- 2021-2022: Huge rate of inflation, no one forecasted.
	- Forecasted recession in 2023, but it did not happen either (Rather forecast recessions)
		- Better theories needed
		- Terrible at forecasting; never going to be good. 
		- Fisher bailed out by Yale after predicting stock market plateau and putting all money in
- What should Fed do, if not good at forecasting?
	- Fed tightening forecasters believed recession coming, but wrong
	- Inflation is heading on downward path
- Recommend Fed stop talking so much!!!
	- Jay Powell: Every meeting press conferences... Should not talk about anything they have not thought about clearly... Statement is fine.
- Market moves in the opposite way in the press conference than it did in the statement
# Debt
- Way more debt. Worried?
- Worried about long run
- Current level compared to GDP is highest level ever after WW2
	- Some of spending is ending, but still have large deficits. Projected to keep rising forever (won't happen; Stein: If keep going forever, will stop eventually)
- Govs. have defaulted in the past
- Bondholders believe US is good debtor, so willing to provide credit 
- 1930s: Roosevelt went off gold standard and defaulted (Debt contracts could be redeemed in gold, which would have made gold much more expensive)
- On path to not get as much SS or Medicare, or higher taxes
- 99% agreement on tax policy: Republicans don't want to raise taxes on anybody, Democrats want to raise taxes on top 1%
	-  Could collect more taxes in general
- Something has to happen to prevent us from going in this trajectory
- How do we know it is high as a share of the economy?
	- Bond market is not priced as if it is at all worried
		- Eventually figure it out
- Pigou Club:
	- Pigouvian Taxes/Corrective Taxes: Taxes to correct externalities 
	- Pigou Club: Inducting people who endorsed carbon taxes/pigouvian taxes
		- Most economists are in favor
- Is Carbon Tax enough?
	- Biden industrial policy: Climate change
		- Subsidies aimed at certain technologies that wouldn't be necessary if there was a policy tax
		- Doesn't want to raise taxes on below $400k
	- Carbon Tax: Hits a lot more margin
- Rebate money lump sum to people: Carbon dividend?
- Carbon Tax creates incentive for technology (gov. can't do better than VC)
- GAI
	- Some jobs will be lost, but other jobs created in the process
	- 200 years ago: Most people were farmers, now less than 2%. 
	- Fiscal problems less serious if increase productivity
	- Skilled workers may be replaced? Reduces inequality? Easier to invent stuff that replaces unskilled workers which increases inequality
- Inequality
	- Positive: 
		- Larry Katza: Race Between Education and Technology
			- Technology tends to be skill biased and replaces demand for unskilled workers
			- Education turns unskilled workers to skilled workers
			- Technology has progressed, education has not; educational attainment plateaued after rising in the postwar period
			- Main source of rising inequality
		- Globalization
		- How assess consequences of different policies
	- Normative:
		- Utilitarian: Maximize sum of utility in society
		- Why wouldn't tax rich: Disincentivize them to produce
		- Right to own fruits of labor
	- Viewpoint Diversity
		- Economists bringing political biases into research
			- Attempt not to 
			- Wide variety of views: Catch implicit biases