---
tags:
  - readings
  - psychotherapy
---

# Week 1 (3-49)
- "A supervisor once told me, 'There's something likable in everyone'... impossible to get to know people deeply and not come to like them."
- "Aren't therapists supposed to **keep their personal lives private**? Aren't they supposed to be **blank slates** who never reveal anything about themselves, objective observers who refrain from calling their patients names—even in their heads?"
- “So while the image of me with mascara running down my tear-streaked face between sessions may be uncomfortable to contemplate, that’s where this story about the handful of struggling humans you are about to meet begins—**with my own humanity**.”
- “A little-discussed fact: Therapists go to therapists. We’re required, in fact, to go during training as part of our hours for licensure so that we know firsthand what our future patients will experience.”
- “A therapist will hold up a mirror to patients, but patients will also hold up a mirror to their therapists. Therapy is far from one-sided; it happens in a **parallel process**. Every day, our patients are opening up questions that we have to think about for ourselves. If they can see themselves more clearly through our reflections, we can see ourselves more clearly through theirs."
	- Transference and countertransference
- “By definition, the presenting problem is the issue that sends a person into therapy.”
- “If this portrait sounds skewed, it is. There are many ways to tell a story, and if I’ve learned anything as a therapist, it’s that most people are what therapists call “**unreliable narrators**.” That’s not to say that they purposely mislead. It’s more that every story has multiple threads, and they tend to leave out the strands that don’t jibe with their perspectives. Most of what patients tell me is absolutely true—from their current points of view.”
- “**When people come to therapy, I’m listening to their narratives but also for their flexibility with them**. Do they consider what they’re saying to be the only version of the story—the “accurate” version—or do they know that theirs is just one of many ways to tell it? Are they aware of what they’re choosing to leave in or out, of how their motivation in sharing this story affects how the listener hears it?”
- “I have a choice: I can say nothing until I understand the moment better, or I can attempt an answer, but whatever I do, I must tell the truth.”
- “Freud argued that “the physician should be impenetrable to the patient, and like a mirror, reflect nothing but what is shown to him.” Nowadays, though, most therapists use some form of what’s known as self-disclosure in their work, whether it’s sharing some of their own reactions that come up during the session or acknowledging that they watch the TV show that a patient keeps referring to. ”
-  “An interesting paradox of the therapy process: In order to do their job, therapists try to see patients as they really are, which means noticing their vulnerabilities and entrenched patterns and struggles. Patients, of course, want to be helped, but they also want to be liked and admired. In other words, they want to hide their vulnerabilities and entrenched patterns and struggles.”
- “He’s trying to establish what’s known as a therapeutic alliance, a trust that has to develop before any work can get done. In the early sessions, it’s always more important for patients to feel heard and understood than it is for them to gain any insight or make any changes.”
- “That the presenting problem, the issue somebody comes in with, is often just one aspect of a larger problem, if not a red herring entirely. He knows that most people are brilliant at finding ways to filter out the things they don’t want to look at, at using distractions or defenses to keep threatening feelings at bay. He knows that pushing aside emotions only makes them stronger, but that before he goes in and destroys somebody’s defense—whether that defense is obsessing about another person or pretending not to see what’s in plain sight—he needs to help the patient replace the defense with something else so that he doesn’t leave the person raw and exposed with no protection whatsoever. As the term implies, defenses serve a useful purpose. They shield people from injury . . . until they no longer need them.”focusing on incidental aspects of an experience rather than on what is psychologically meaningful, attending to facts and events to the exclusion of affect, focusing on external circumstances rather)
# Week 2 (50-80)
- “This is called **working in the here-and-now**. Instead of focusing on a patient’s stories from the outside world, the here-and-now is about what’s occurring in the room. You can bet that whatever a patient does with his therapist, he also does with others, and I wanted John to begin to see the impact he had on people.”
- “ In **idiot compassion**, you avoid rocking the boat to spare people’s feelings, even though the boat needs rocking and your compassion ends up being more harmful than your honesty. People do this with teenagers, spouses, addicts, even themselves. Its opposite is wise compassion, which means caring about the person but also giving him or her a loving truth bomb when needed.”
- “In fact, instead of being **neutral**, we therapists strive to notice our very un-neutral feelings and biases and opinions (what we call **countertransference**), so that we can step back and figure out what to do with them. We use, rather than suppress, our feelings to help guide the treatment.”
- “But more than John’s entitlement, what strikes me is this: he’s **showing me a softer side I haven’t seen yet**.”
- “People often mistake numbness for nothingness, but **numbness isn’t the absence of feelings; it’s a response to being overwhelmed by too many feelings**.”
- “There’s a difference between pain and suffering,” Wendell says. “You’re going to have to feel pain—everyone feels pain at times—but you don’t have to suffer so much. You’re not choosing the pain, but you’re choosing the suffering.” He goes on to explain that all of this perseverating I’m doing, all of this endless rumination and speculation about Boyfriend’s life, is adding to the pain and causing me to suffer. So, he suggests, if I’m clinging to the suffering so tightly, I must be getting something out of it. It must be serving some purpose for me.”
- “There is a continuing decision to be made as to whether to evade pain, or to tolerate it and therefore modify it.”
# Week 10 (176–268)
## Embarrassing Public Encounters
- Meeting patient's boyfriend who couldn't get erection -> Cheating
-  "being a therapist sometimes felt more like having an affair with your entire caseload, past and present, simultaneously. We’re always pretending not to know the people we know most intimately."
-  "therapists who feel uncomfortable when our outside worlds collide. After all, we’ve seen our patients’ real lives. They haven’t seen ours."
- "Often when patients see our humanity, they leave us."
- "In movies, therapist silences have become a cliché, but it’s only in silence that people can truly hear themselves. Talking can keep people in their heads and safely away from their emotions. Being silent is like emptying the trash. When you stop tossing junk into the void—words, words, and more words—something important rises to the surface. And when the silence is a shared experience, it can be a gold mine for thoughts and feelings that the patient didn’t even know existed. It’s no wonder that I spent an entire session with Wendell saying virtually nothing and simply crying. Even great joy is sometimes best expressed through silence, as when a patient comes in after landing a hard-won promotion or getting engaged and can’t find the words to express the magnitude of what she’s feeling. So we sit in silence together, beaming."
- "Enjoy it while it lasts"
	- Thought about daughter outgrowing him, but "Boys don't always do that" so now thinks its about him and his mother
## Wendell's Mother
- Wendell: Older boy bike injury, learned when girl invited for bike ride, bike store owner
- Googling therapist
- John, Stanford hire, knew Gottlieb from Stanford
- “Google-stalking Boyfriend I was holding on to a future that had been canceled. I was watching Boyfriend’s future unfold while I stayed locked in the past. I’d need to accept that his future and mine, his present and mine, were now separate and that all we had left in common was our history.”
- “If something isn’t working, do something different, therapists are taught in training when they’re hitting a wall with a patient, and we also suggest it to our patients: Why continue doing the same unhelpful thing over and over?”
- Angela L. Wardell patient angry -> Self aware and less angry 
- “emotional sobriety”—the ability to regulate one’s feelings without self-medicating, whether that medication comes in the form of substances, defenses, affairs, or the internet"
- “The internet can be both a salve and an addiction, a way to block out pain (the salve) while simultaneously creating it (the addiction). When the cyber-drug wears off, you feel worse, not better. Patients think they want to know about their therapists, but often, once they find out, they wish they hadn’t, because this knowledge has the potential to contaminate the relationship, leaving patients to edit, consciously or not, what they say in their sessions.”
## Addicted
- Charlotte: Anxious, bored with job, difficulty w/parents and social life, drinks glasses of wine nightly to relax
- “Of course, I thought. Unavailable. Just Charlotte’s type. Charlotte, in fact, had used that same expression every time she mentioned the Dude. He’s so my type.”
- “But what underlies a person’s type, in fact, is a sense of familiarity. It’s no coincidence that people who had angry parents often end up choosing angry partners, that those with alcoholic parents are frequently drawn to partners who drink quite a bit, or that those who had withdrawn or critical parents find themselves married to spouses who are withdrawn or critical.”
- “Why would people do this to themselves? Because the pull toward that feeling of “home” makes what they want as adults hard to disentangle from what they experienced as children. They have an uncanny attraction to people who share the characteristics of a parent who in some way hurt them. In the beginning of a relationship, these characteristics will be barely perceptible, but the unconscious has a finely tuned radar system inaccessible to the conscious mind. It’s not that people want to get hurt again. It’s that they want to master a situation in which they felt helpless as children. Freud called this “repetition compulsion.” Maybe this time, the unconscious imagines, I can go back and heal that wound from long ago by engaging with somebody familiar—but new. The only problem is, by choosing familiar partners, people guarantee the opposite result: they reopen the wounds and feel even more inadequate and unlovable.”
- “This happens completely outside of awareness. Charlotte, for instance, said that she wanted a reliable boyfriend capable of intimacy, but every time she met somebody who was her type, chaos and frustration ensued. Conversely, after a recent date with a guy who seemed to possess many of the qualities she said she wanted in a partner, she came to therapy and reported: “It’s too bad, but there just wasn’t any chemistry.” To her unconscious, his emotional stability felt too foreign.”
- “Terry Real described our well-worn behaviors as “our internalized family of origin. It’s our repertoire of relational themes.”
- “People don’t have to tell you their stories with words because they always act them out for you. Often they project negative expectations onto the therapist, but if the therapist doesn’t meet those negative expectations, this “corrective emotional experience” with a reliable and benevolent person changes the patients; the world, they learn, turns out not to be their family of origin.”
- “It may seem logical that if you identify with a patient, it will make the work easier because you intuitively understand her, but in many ways, this kind of identification makes things harder. I’ve had to be extra-vigilant in our sessions, making sure that I’m seeing Charlotte as a separate person and not as a younger version of myself that I can go back and fix”
- “Our relationship was the ideal combination of intimacy and distance”
## The Rapist
- “He may be resistant to acknowledging it now, but I welcome his resistance because resistance is a clue to where the crux of the work lies; it signals what a therapist needs to pay attention to.”
- “It’s a common belief that people’s sex lives reflect their relationships, that a good relationship equals a good sex life and vice versa. But that’s only true sometimes. Just as often, there are people who have extremely problematic relationships and fantastic sex, and there are people who are deeply in love but who don’t click with the same intensity in the bedroom.”
- “Gabe is my son,” John said so quietly that I could barely hear him. “How’s that for a twist in the case, Sherlock?”
- “This felt like a classic example of projective identification. In projection, a patient attributes his beliefs to another person; in projective identification, he sends them into another person. ”
- “What John did—the walking-out part, at least—isn’t uncommon. Especially in couples therapy, patients occasionally walk out if they feel besieged by intense feelings. Sometimes that person benefits from a phone call from the therapist, particularly if the reason he or she bolted had to do with feeling misunderstood or injured. Often, though, it’s best to let patients sit with their feelings, get their bearings, and then work through it with them the following session.”
- “Sometimes when people don’t show, they do it to punish the therapist and send a message: You’ve upset me. And sometimes they do it to avoid not just the therapist but themselves, to avoid confronting their shame or pain or the truth they know they need to tell. People communicate through their attendance—whether they’re prompt or late, cancel an hour beforehand, or don’t show up at all.”
- “ His laugh is his shelter.”
## On the Clock
- “see one, do one, teach one”
- “I know I should be asking how long she’s felt this way (“history of present condition”), how severe it’s been, whether something happened that brought this on (a “precipitating event”).”
- “In the parlance of therapeutic theory, I’d “met the patient where she was”—history-taking be damned.”
- “Don’t bullshit your patients.”
## My Wandering Uterus
- “He thought I was a modern-day version of Freud’s female hysteric, experiencing what’s known as conversion disorder. This is a condition in which a person’s anxiety is “converted” into neurologic conditions such as paralysis, balance issues, incontinence, blindness, deafness, tremors, or seizures. The symptoms are often temporary and tend to be related (sometimes symbolically) to the psychological stressor at its root. ”
- “People with conversion disorder aren’t faking it—that’s called factitious disorder. People with factitious disorder have a need to be thought of as sick and intentionally go to great lengths to appear ill. In conversion disorder, though, the patient is actually experiencing these symptoms; it’s just that there’s no identifiable medical explanation for them. They seem to be caused by emotional distress that the patient is completely unconscious of.”
- “And now I’m doing the same thing—postponing—with Wendell, because the truth comes with a cost: the need to face reality.”
## Emergency Session
- Rita, Myron. Plantonic, dating? 
- “Myron was the real impetus for her coming to therapy, she has never mentioned him before. I wonder why she’s telling me now and what today’s emergency is about.”
- “I remember Rita’s earlier proclamation: Love is pain. The Myron situation has upended her so because when her heart that had been in a decades-long deep freeze finally began to thaw with Myron in her life, she had tasted hope and then lost it. It occurs to me now that when Rita first came to see me, she was desperate not just because she would be turning seventy in a year, as she reported then, but because Myron’s disappearance had made her wonder the same thing I was wondering when I first saw Wendell: Had the man who’d just left been the “end of the line,” as I’d put it—the last chance at love? Rita, too, has been grieving something bigger.”
## Karma
- “By focusing on one external calamity after another, Charlotte has been distracting herself from the real crises in her life—the internal ones. Sometimes “drama,” no matter how unpleasant, can be a form of self-medication, a way to calm ourselves down by avoiding the crises brewing inside.”
- “We hesitate to give answers not only because patients don’t really want to hear them, but also because they often misconstrue what they hear (leaving us thinking, for instance, I never suggested you say that to your mother! ). Most important, we want to support their independence.”
- “She rarely got to see her parents acting like adults, like her friends’ parents.”
- “I think of this misery-seduction dynamic between Charlotte and me, and between a younger Charlotte and her parents. No matter what Charlotte did—getting drunk, staying out late, being promiscuous—it didn’t have the desired effect.”
## Just Be
- “Maybe everything they complain about isn’t actually a problem! Maybe it’s fine the way it is. Maybe it’s even great, like their haircut. Maybe they’d be happier if they didn’t try to change things. Just be.”
## Would You Rather?
- “Nobody at Trader Joe’s knows that she’s sick, and for as long as she can, she wants to keep it that way. She wants them to know her first as a person, not as a cancer patient, which sounds a lot like how we therapists think about our patients: We want to get to know them before we get to know their problems.”
- “And that kind of blew people’s minds, just the concept that when presented with two awful alternatives, maybe neither was an option.”
- “Once she got sick, though, neither became less of an option: Would you rather have no breasts but live or keep your breasts and die? She chose life. There were many decisions like this, where the answers were difficult yet obvious, and each time, Julie took them in stride. But now, with this particular would-you-rather, this body-part roulette, she didn’t know how to choose. She was, after all, still getting over the shock of her recent miscarriage.”
- “This was grief: You laugh. You cry. Repeat.”
- “I’m glad that Julie is thinking about the impact of her cancer on Matt. It’s something she’s avoided talking about by changing the subject whenever I mentioned that maybe it was hard for Matt to go through this too.”
- “forever changed and paradoxically alive.”
- “I was just thinking,” she begins, “that instead of spending my time being jealous of everyone else, maybe part of my purpose for the time I have left could be helping the people I love to move forward.”
- “They talk about making sure their husbands are going to be okay,” she says. “Even if I’m jealous of his future, I want Matt to be okay.” Julie looks at me like she just said something I’m supposed to understand, but I don’t."
- “You want to let him know it’s okay to love again,” I say. “That doesn’t sound wacky at all.” Often a dying spouse wants to give the surviving one this blessing—to say that it’s okay to hold one person in your heart and fall in love with another, that our capacity for love is big enough for both.”
- “All the time,” Julie says. “Every time he holds my hand, I say, ‘I’m going to miss your hands.’ Or when he’s whistling around the house—he’s an amazing whistler—I’ll tell him how much I’m going to miss that sound. And he always used to say, ‘Jules, you’re still here. You can hold my hands and hear me whistle.’ But now—” Julie’s voice cracks. “Now he says, ‘I’m going to miss you just as much.’ I think he’s starting to accept the fact that I’m really dying this time.”
- “Every day is another loss of something she took for granted until it was gone, like what happens to the couples I see who take each other for granted and then miss each other when the marriage seems to be dying. Many women, too, have told me that they loathed getting their menstrual periods but grieved the loss of them when they reached menopause. They missed bleeding the way Julie will miss shitting.”
- “Sometimes the only thing to do is yell, “Fuck!”
## The Speed of Want
- “You’ll turn thirty or forty or fifty anyway, whether your hours are finished or not,” she said. “What does it matter what age you are when that happens? Either way, you won’t get today back.”
- “Speed is about time, but it’s also closely related to endurance and effort. The faster the speed, the thinking goes, the less endurance or effort required. Patience, on the other hand, requires endurance and effort. It’s defined as “the bearing of provocation, annoyance, misfortune, or pain without complaint, loss of temper, irritation, or the like.”
- “There was an unspoken irony to all of this. People wanted a speedy solution to their problems, but what if their moods had been driven down in the first place by the hurried pace of their lives? They imagined that they were rushing now in order to savor their lives later, but so often, later never came”
- “Erich Fromm had made this point more than fifty years earlier: “Modern man thinks he loses something—time—when he does not do things quickly; yet he does not know what to do with the time he gains except kill it.”"
- “The therapy room seemed to be one of the only places left where two people sit in a room together for an uninterrupted fifty minutes. Despite its veil of professionalism, this weekly I-thou ritual is often one of the most human encounters that people experience”
## Ultimate Concerns
- “I came across a character who described his constant worry as “a relentless need to escape a moment that never ends.”
- “I’ve come up with my own way to cope. If I screw up my life, I can engineer my own death rather than have it happen to me. It may not be what I want, but at least I’ll choose it. Like cutting off my nose to spite my face, this is a way to say, Take that, uncertainty.”
- “I try to wrap my mind around this paradox: self-sabotage as a form of control. If I screw up my life, I can engineer my own death rather than have it happen to me. If I stay in a doomed relationship, if I mess up my career, if I hide in fear instead of facing what’s wrong with my body, I can create a living death—but one where I call the shots.”
- “The process is highly idiosyncratic because there’s no cookie-cutter way to help people through what are at the deepest level existential fears—or what Yalom called “ultimate concerns.”
- “The four ultimate concerns are death, isolation, freedom, and meaninglessness. Death, of course, is an instinctive fear that we often repress but that tends to increase as we get older. What we fear isn’t just dying in the literal sense but in the sense of being extinguished, the loss of our very identities, of our younger and more vibrant selves. How do we defend against this fear? Sometimes we refuse to grow up. Sometimes we self-sabotage. And sometimes we flat-out deny our impending deaths. But as Yalom wrote in Existential Psychotherapy, our awareness of death helps us live more fully—and with less, not more, anxiety.”
- “And then there’s the third ultimate concern: freedom, and all the existential difficulties that freedom poses for us”
- “Like many people my age, I don’t feel free because I’ve lost touch with that emotional freedom. And that’s what I’m doing here in therapy—trying to free myself emotionally again.”
- “In a way, this midlife crisis may be more about opening up than shutting down, an expansion rather than a constriction, a rebirth rather than a death. I remember when Wendell said that I wanted to be saved. But Wendell isn’t here to save me or solve my problems as much as to guide me through my life as it is so that I can manage the certainty of uncertainty without sabotaging myself along the way.”
- “Uncertainty, I’m starting to realize, doesn’t mean the loss of hope—it means there’s possibility. I don’t know what will happen next—how potentially exciting! I’m going to have to figure out how to make the most of the life I have, illness or not, partner or not, the march of time notwithstanding. Which is to say, I’m going to have to look more closely at the fourth ultimate concern: meaninglessness.”

