---
tags:
  - readings
  - psychotherapy
---

"One advantage of BetterHelp is that because the service does not bill insurance, there is no need for clinicians to provide a diagnosis and target therapy to fit the “medical necessity” requirements imposed by third-party payers. Without insurance, patients can choose to be seen for whatever they want, and therapists don’t need to shoehorn them into a diagnostic category, which can be stigmatizing."

"Patients often find such a level of self-disclosure about the therapist’s problems burdensome and distracting, and I immediately felt less confidence in her ability to help."

"BetterHelp makes it easy to switch therapists if you are dissatisfied, without needing to inform the therapist you plan to make the change."

"I suspect BetterHelp therapists feel pressure to help quickly—in order keep up their caseload and avoid being ghosted on a platform where patients are encouraged to provide a star rating for each session—so they respond hastily without listening well. Retaining clients is essential, since pay is determined by the amount of interaction with a client and therapists are encouraged to add more and more time to earn better compensation: working under 10 hours a week pays just $30 per hour, while 35 hours and above pays $70. The structure and set up of the platform may make therapists jittery, pressing them into achieving quick results and using superficial interventions."

"Clinical data on the effectiveness of BetterHelp treatment is scant. BetterHelp’s website referred to one published study of 318 patients, most of whom primarily used text messages to communicate with their therapists. Results after three months of treatment showed clinically significant improvement on a measure of depression. But the researchers said the study was preliminary and suggested the need for further research.  The results were limited by the lack of a control group—a group of patients who did not receive the treatment—which would help assess whether improvement was due to the therapy or some other factor, such as the passage of time.  And all participants in the research were volunteers, so there is no way of knowing how different such individuals are from those who did not choose to participate. The research also is compromised by conflicts of interest: one of the four co-authors currently is employed by the company; another is a former consultant. From a scientific perspective, a single methodologically flawed study establishes little. Formal studies on other platforms are similarly preliminary and unconclusive."

"This is a general problem in the field: therapists do not routinely gather objective data on their outcomes. But some factors seem to contribute to effectiveness, such as working in a group practice or clinic where there is close contact with colleagues. There is no data on the reasons for this, but Wampold suspects that clinics provide an environment that values improvement, and therapists who work in them have some idea what their colleagues in the same location are doing. Therapists for BetterHelp are on their own. The site does provide a discussion board and webinars for therapists to discuss clinical issues, but it is unclear whether the kind of support and consultation that occurs in a clinic or group practice setting would occur on a discussion board with strangers."

"Becoming a BetterHelp therapist was concerningly easy."

"Betty also found the service’s texting component stressful: Therapists are required to text patients every three days and respond to text messages sent by patients within 24 hours—48 hours on weekends. If this doesn’t occur, therapists get a threatening email message from the company. Betty said therapists are aware the company can punish them if they run afoul of expectations by shutting off access to new referrals. She also said the company misleads patients by saying they can text their therapists 24 hours a day, but do not explain to patients that therapists do not respond immediately."

"BetterHelp does offer its therapists some perks: They get free membership to the service, which allows therapists to receive their own therapy for free; free access to more than 390 continuing education courses, which therapists would otherwise need to pay for out of pocket to meet licensing requirements; and a $650 monthly stipend to cover health insurance. The insurance benefit, however, is only available to therapists who “continuously” work 30 hours per week for two months. Betty said she valued this benefit, but found it hard to maintain enough hours to qualify, especially after the company changed its payment scheme so it no longer counted words patients wrote on worksheets."

"Wampold, the psychotherapy researcher, said he believed BetterHelp’s business model is designed to induce therapists to work as many hours as possible, which likely detracts from the quality of care. He was also concerned the individualized nature of the service could make it harder for therapist to succeed: “It’s already isolating enough to do therapy. We go into a room and or on video, and you do this confidentially. You really need support, help, consultation, peer consultation; these things are all important.”"

"Instead, BetterHelp can advertise that it provides therapy, though there is no credible evidence that what patients on average receive is effective, or if therapists can even work competently under its stringent work requirements. If companies like BetterHelp continue to take over the marketplace, psychotherapy will become a frenzied, low-paying profession, which will discourage talented individuals from entering the field and burn out the ones who do."